platform/agentify/README.md, before:

# 🌐 Agentify - Building the Agentic Economy Together

**The Platform Layer for the CPA Agent Platform**

Agentify is the **platform layer** built on top of the **Agent Standard v1** foundation. It enables the creation of an **agentic economy** where apps and agents collaborate, share data, and form dynamic teams to solve complex problems.

---

## 🎯 **What is Agentify?**

Agentify transforms the Agent Standard v1 from a **single-agent framework** into a **multi-agent platform** with:

- 📱 **Apps** - React-based applications with built-in orchestrator agents
- 🤖 **Agents** - Autonomous agents that can join teams and collaborate
- 🏪 **Marketplace** - Central discovery and acquisition of agents
- 🔄 **Data Sharing** - Secure cross-app data access
- 👥 **Team Building** - Dynamic team formation based on requirements
- 💰 **Revenue Sharing** - Automatic billing and revenue distribution

---

## 🏗️ **Architecture Overview**

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    Agentify Platform                         │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                              │
│  ┌──────────────┐  ┌──────────────┐  ┌──────────────┐      │
│  │  App 1       │  │  App 2       │  │  Marketplace │      │
│  │  + Orch.     │  │  + Orch.     │  │  App         │      │
│  └──────┬───────┘  └──────┬───────┘  └──────┬───────┘      │
│         │                 │                  │              │
│         └─────────────────┴──────────────────┘              │
│                           │                                 │
│                  ┌────────▼────────┐                        │
│                  │  Discovery      │                        │
│                  │  Service        │                        │
│                  └────────┬────────┘                        │
│                           │                                 │
│                  ┌────────▼────────┐                        │
│                  │  Data Sharing   │                        │
│                  │  Protocol       │                        │
│                  └────────┬────────┘                        │
│                           │                                 │
├───────────────────────────┼─────────────────────────────────┤
│                           │                                 │
│                  ┌────────▼────────┐                        │
│                  │ Agent Standard  │                        │
│                  │ v1 (Foundation) │                        │
│                  └─────────────────┘                        │
│                                                             │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

---

## 📦 **Core Components**

### **1. App Standard**
- React-based (Vite + Tailwind + Zustand)
- Two modes: Standalone & Integrated
- Built-in orchestrator agent
- AI-assisted development (Lovable, Cursor, etc.)

**See:** [app_standard/README.md](app_standard/README.md)

---

### **2. Orchestrator Agent**
- Every app has a unique orchestrator
- Builds teams dynamically based on requirements
- LLM-guided team selection
- Human-in-the-loop review

**See:** [orchestrator/README.md](orchestrator/README.md)

---

### **3. Marketplace**
- Central agent discovery
- Agent acquisition and team building
- Automatic billing and revenue sharing
- Agent ratings (1-10) and creator info

**See:** [marketplace/README.md](marketplace/README.md)

---

### **4. Data Sharing Protocol**
- REST + JSON API
- RBAC permissions model
- Configurable data residency (Cloud/Edge/Local)
- Audit trail for all data access

**See:** [data_sharing/README.md](data_sharing/README.md)

---

## 🚀 **Quick Start**

### **Create Your First Agentify App**

```bash
# Install CLI
npm install -g @agentify/cli

# Create new app
agentify create my-app

# Start development
cd my-app
npm run dev
```

**Or use AI-assisted development:**

See [app_standard/prompts/](app_standard/prompts/) for prompts for Lovable, Cursor, Copilot, etc.

---

## 🎯 **Key Features**

### **1. Apps with Built-in Orchestrators**
Every app has an orchestrator agent that can:
- Analyze user requirements
- Query the marketplace for agents
- Build teams dynamically
- Manage team lifecycle

### **2. Dynamic Team Building**
- **LLM-Guided**: AI analyzes requirements and suggests agents
- **Human-in-the-Loop**: Review before booking/updating teams
- **Cost-Aware**: Consider pricing and capabilities
- **Auto-Scaling**: Add/remove agents as needed

### **3. Marketplace Integration**
- **Discovery**: Find agents by capability, price, rating
- **Acquisition**: Book agents for your team
- **Billing**: Automatic revenue sharing
- **Trust**: Creator info + ratings (1-10)

### **4. Data Sharing**
- **Cross-App**: Share data between apps securely
- **Permissions**: RBAC-based access control
- **Audit**: All access logged
- **Flexible**: Cloud, Edge, or Local storage

---

## 📚 **Documentation**

| Document | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| **[README.md](README.md)** ⬅️ You are here | Platform overview |
| **[ARCHITECTURE.md](ARCHITECTURE.md)** | Detailed architecture |
| **[QUICKSTART.md](QUICKSTART.md)** | Build your first app in 10 minutes |
| **[COMPONENTS.md](COMPONENTS.md)** | Component overview & dependencies |
| **[App Standard](app_standard/README.md)** | App specification |
| **[Agent Standard](agent_standard/README.md)** | Agent specification |
| **[Orchestrator](orchestrator/README.md)** | Orchestrator specification |
| **[Marketplace](marketplace/README.md)** | Marketplace specification |
| **[Data Sharing](data_sharing/README.md)** | Data sharing protocol |
| **[Use Cases](use_cases/README.md)** | Real-world implementations (Abacus-Gruppe) |

---

## 🤖 **AI-Assisted Development**

Agentify is designed for **AI-first development**. Use our pre-built prompts with:

- **Lovable** - Generate full apps from prompts
- **Cursor** - AI-powered code editing
- **GitHub Copilot** - Code completion
- **Augment** - Codebase-aware AI
- **v0** - UI generation
- **Bolt** - Full-stack generation

**See:** [app_standard/prompts/](app_standard/prompts/)

---

## 🏪 **Marketplace**

The **Agentify Marketplace** is the central hub for:

- 🔍 **Discovery** - Find agents by capability
- 💰 **Pricing** - Transparent pricing per agent
- ⭐ **Ratings** - Community ratings (1-10)
- 👤 **Creators** - Agent creator information
- 🤝 **Teams** - Pre-built agent teams

**Default Marketplace:** `https://marketplace.agentify.io`  
**Private Marketplaces:** Supported for enterprise

---

## 💡 **Use Cases**

### **1. Multi-Agent Workflows**
Build apps that orchestrate multiple agents:
- Data processing pipeline
- Customer service automation
- Content creation workflow

### **2. Agent Marketplace**
Create and sell agents:
- Specialized tools
- Domain expertise
- Custom integrations

### **3. Enterprise Automation**
Deploy private agent ecosystems:
- Internal tools
- Process automation
- Knowledge management

---

## 🔗 **Relationship to Agent Standard v1**

Agentify **builds on** Agent Standard v1:

```
Agent Standard v1 (Foundation)
├── Ethics, Desires, Health
├── Tools, Memory, IO
└── Authority, Oversight

Agentify (Platform Layer)
├── Apps (React + Orchestrator)
├── Marketplace (Discovery + Billing)
├── Data Sharing (REST + RBAC)
└── Team Building (LLM-guided)
```

**All Agentify components are Agent Standard v1 compliant!**

---

## 📞 **Support**

- **Issues**: https://github.com/JonasDEMA/cpa_agent_platform/issues
- **Discussions**: https://github.com/JonasDEMA/cpa_agent_platform/discussions
- **Email**: support@agentify.dev
- **Marketplace**: https://marketplace.agentify.io

---

**Let's build the agentic economy together! 🚀**

Commit message:

feat: Add comprehensive Developer Guide and update navigation

platform/agentify/README.md, after:

# 🌐 Agentify - Building the Agentic Economy Together

**The Platform Layer for the CPA Agent Platform**

> 🚀 **START HERE:** [DEVELOPER_GUIDE.md](DEVELOPER_GUIDE.md) - Complete guide to building agents & apps on Agentify
>
> 📖 **Quick Start:** [core/agent_standard/QUICKSTART_COMPLETE.md](../../core/agent_standard/QUICKSTART_COMPLETE.md) - Create your first agent in 5 minutes
>
> 📝 **Templates:** [core/agent_standard/templates/](../../core/agent_standard/templates/) - Ready-to-use JSON templates
>
> 🤖 **AI Prompt:** See [DEVELOPER_GUIDE.md#ai-prompt-for-development](DEVELOPER_GUIDE.md#ai-prompt-for-development) for AI-assisted development

Agentify is the **platform layer** built on top of the **Agent Standard v1** foundation. It enables the creation of an **agentic economy** where apps and agents collaborate, share data, and form dynamic teams to solve complex problems.

---

## 🎯 **What is Agentify?**

Agentify transforms the Agent Standard v1 from a **single-agent framework** into a **multi-agent platform** with:

- 📱 **Apps** - React-based applications with built-in orchestrator agents
- 🤖 **Agents** - Autonomous agents that can join teams and collaborate
- 🏪 **Marketplace** - Central discovery and acquisition of agents
- 🔄 **Data Sharing** - Secure cross-app data access
- 👥 **Team Building** - Dynamic team formation based on requirements
- 💰 **Revenue Sharing** - Automatic billing and revenue distribution

---

## 🏗️ **Architecture Overview**

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    Agentify Platform                         │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                              │
│  ┌──────────────┐  ┌──────────────┐  ┌──────────────┐      │
│  │  App 1       │  │  App 2       │  │  Marketplace │      │
│  │  + Orch.     │  │  + Orch.     │  │  App         │      │
│  └──────┬───────┘  └──────┬───────┘  └──────┬───────┘      │
│         │                 │                  │              │
│         └─────────────────┴──────────────────┘              │
│                           │                                 │
│                  ┌────────▼────────┐                        │
│                  │  Discovery      │                        │
│                  │  Service        │                        │
│                  └────────┬────────┘                        │
│                           │                                 │
│                  ┌────────▼────────┐                        │
│                  │  Data Sharing   │                        │
│                  │  Protocol       │                        │
│                  └────────┬────────┘                        │
│                           │                                 │
├───────────────────────────┼─────────────────────────────────┤
│                           │                                 │
│                  ┌────────▼────────┐                        │
│                  │ Agent Standard  │                        │
│                  │ v1 (Foundation) │                        │
│                  └─────────────────┘                        │
│                                                             │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

---

## 📦 **Core Components**

### **1. App Standard**
- React-based (Vite + Tailwind + Zustand)
- Two modes: Standalone & Integrated
- Built-in orchestrator agent
- AI-assisted development (Lovable, Cursor, etc.)

**See:** [app_standard/README.md](app_standard/README.md)

---

### **2. Orchestrator Agent**
- Every app has a unique orchestrator
- Builds teams dynamically based on requirements
- LLM-guided team selection
- Human-in-the-loop review

**See:** [orchestrator/README.md](orchestrator/README.md)

---

### **3. Marketplace**
- Central agent discovery
- Agent acquisition and team building
- Automatic billing and revenue sharing
- Agent ratings (1-10) and creator info

**See:** [marketplace/README.md](marketplace/README.md)

---

### **4. Data Sharing Protocol**
- REST + JSON API
- RBAC permissions model
- Configurable data residency (Cloud/Edge/Local)
- Audit trail for all data access

**See:** [data_sharing/README.md](data_sharing/README.md)

---

## 🚀 **Quick Start**

### **Create Your First Agentify App**

```bash
# Install CLI
npm install -g @agentify/cli

# Create new app
agentify create my-app

# Start development
cd my-app
npm run dev
```

**Or use AI-assisted development:**

See [app_standard/prompts/](app_standard/prompts/) for prompts for Lovable, Cursor, Copilot, etc.

---

## 🎯 **Key Features**

### **1. Apps with Built-in Orchestrators**
Every app has an orchestrator agent that can:
- Analyze user requirements
- Query the marketplace for agents
- Build teams dynamically
- Manage team lifecycle

### **2. Dynamic Team Building**
- **LLM-Guided**: AI analyzes requirements and suggests agents
- **Human-in-the-Loop**: Review before booking/updating teams
- **Cost-Aware**: Consider pricing and capabilities
- **Auto-Scaling**: Add/remove agents as needed

### **3. Marketplace Integration**
- **Discovery**: Find agents by capability, price, rating
- **Acquisition**: Book agents for your team
- **Billing**: Automatic revenue sharing
- **Trust**: Creator info + ratings (1-10)

### **4. Data Sharing**
- **Cross-App**: Share data between apps securely
- **Permissions**: RBAC-based access control
- **Audit**: All access logged
- **Flexible**: Cloud, Edge, or Local storage

---

## 📚 **Documentation**

| Document | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| **[README.md](README.md)** ⬅️ You are here | Platform overview |
| **[ARCHITECTURE.md](ARCHITECTURE.md)** | Detailed architecture |
| **[QUICKSTART.md](QUICKSTART.md)** | Build your first app in 10 minutes |
| **[COMPONENTS.md](COMPONENTS.md)** | Component overview & dependencies |
| **[App Standard](app_standard/README.md)** | App specification |
| **[Agent Standard](agent_standard/README.md)** | Agent specification |
| **[Orchestrator](orchestrator/README.md)** | Orchestrator specification |
| **[Marketplace](marketplace/README.md)** | Marketplace specification |
| **[Data Sharing](data_sharing/README.md)** | Data sharing protocol |
| **[Use Cases](use_cases/README.md)** | Real-world implementations (Abacus-Gruppe) |

---

## 🤖 **AI-Assisted Development**

Agentify is designed for **AI-first development**. Use our pre-built prompts with:

- **Lovable** - Generate full apps from prompts
- **Cursor** - AI-powered code editing
- **GitHub Copilot** - Code completion
- **Augment** - Codebase-aware AI
- **v0** - UI generation
- **Bolt** - Full-stack generation

**See:** [app_standard/prompts/](app_standard/prompts/)

---

## 🏪 **Marketplace**

The **Agentify Marketplace** is the central hub for:

- 🔍 **Discovery** - Find agents by capability
- 💰 **Pricing** - Transparent pricing per agent
- ⭐ **Ratings** - Community ratings (1-10)
- 👤 **Creators** - Agent creator information
- 🤝 **Teams** - Pre-built agent teams

**Default Marketplace:** `https://marketplace.agentify.io`  
**Private Marketplaces:** Supported for enterprise

---

## 💡 **Use Cases**

### **1. Multi-Agent Workflows**
Build apps that orchestrate multiple agents:
- Data processing pipeline
- Customer service automation
- Content creation workflow

### **2. Agent Marketplace**
Create and sell agents:
- Specialized tools
- Domain expertise
- Custom integrations

### **3. Enterprise Automation**
Deploy private agent ecosystems:
- Internal tools
- Process automation
- Knowledge management

---

## 🔗 **Relationship to Agent Standard v1**

Agentify **builds on** Agent Standard v1:

```
Agent Standard v1 (Foundation)
├── Ethics, Desires, Health
├── Tools, Memory, IO
└── Authority, Oversight

Agentify (Platform Layer)
├── Apps (React + Orchestrator)
├── Marketplace (Discovery + Billing)
├── Data Sharing (REST + RBAC)
└── Team Building (LLM-guided)
```

**All Agentify components are Agent Standard v1 compliant!**

---

## 📞 **Support**

- **Issues**: https://github.com/JonasDEMA/cpa_agent_platform/issues
- **Discussions**: https://github.com/JonasDEMA/cpa_agent_platform/discussions
- **Email**: support@agentify.dev
- **Marketplace**: https://marketplace.agentify.io

---

**Let's build the agentic economy together! 🚀**
